# BibNets

## WORKSHOP “ANALYSIS OF BIBLIOGRAPHIC NETWORKS”
*Vladimir Batagelj*, IMFM Ljubljana \\
Daria Maltseva, NRU HSE International laboratory for Applied Network Research, Moscow

The analysis of bibliographic networks has been developed in the areas of sociology of science, information science, scientometrics, and bibliometrics. These networks consider different types of relations between bibliographic entities, such as publications, authors, journals, keywords, institutions, etc., underlying different patterns of communication and collaboration in science. Based on bibliographic networks, it is possible to study co-authorship, co-citation, citing, and bibliographic coupling among authors, works, and journals, to extract most important works, authors, or journals, to map different scientific disciplines and look at their development through time. The analysis of these networks can be useful not only for the sociologists of science but also for any researcher or Ph.D. student trying to get deeper into the new scientific field or prepare a systematic literature review. 

The positive side of bibliographic networks analysis is that the data for such networks can be easily collected from special bibliographies and bibliographic services. Detailed information can be obtained not only about the authors’ names and publications’ titles, but also institution, occupation, time of the first work, time of the last work (for authors), and publisher, journal, editor/s, number, volume, pages, keywords, time of submission, classification/s (for works). However, producing these networks some problems can occur, connected to the synonymy and homonymy, lack of standardization of names and keywords, errors, etc. Many tools for network production work well for the Latin alphabet only. Another problem is that networks obtained from the bibliographic databases can be large (hundreds of thousands of nodes), and their analysis can be quite time and computationally consuming.  

During our workshop we will present the network approach to bibliographic data analysis and different methods used for their analyses, also covering the questions of getting and preparing networks. Among others, we will present a way to extract the main paths with the most important works forming disciplines, count a measure of collaborativeness of authors with respect to a given bibliography, and show how to compute the network of citations between authors and identify citation communities. The participants will learn how to collect bibliographic data for their areas of studies, construct the corresponding networks and apply the discussed techniques of network analysis to them. We will use the program Pajek, supported by some special programs in Python and R. Workshop materials will be available at the GitHub repository: https://github.com/bavla/BibNets.

Requirements for the participants: basic knowledge of network analysis is assumed. To follow the workshop hands-on, a laptop with installed software is needed. The details are available at the Github repository.

Technical requirements: a beamer (projector) and WiFi connection. 
